#Clare Brennan Interview: 11/12/
Featuring:
    Clare Brennan (CB)
    Kyle Macquarrie (KM)
    
CB: My role within NEoN is as project manager, and also to curate a number of the events. In terms of marketing within industry, that's not really what we're about; we're not looking for clients for any profit, so I couldn't speak to that. You spoke about a number of the bigger projects you were interested in. 

KM: Yeah, I spoke to Mal from Quartic Llama, because they have that dual identity where they're doing their games stuff...

CB: Did you find that helpful?

KM: Yeah, he had some really good insights about manipulating the narrative that you're telling, depending on the circumstances. When you have something like *100,000 Lux*, that's something that's very specific to that place and that time, how you go about finding someone to do that? 

CB: We're often inspired by spaces. We start out looking for spaces that you wouldn't necessarily relate to in an arts context, non-arts spaces essentially. That's what we're excited by. We did *100,000 Lux* there, we've taken over the Greenamrket car park, we took over the Law hill for a night. This year we took over the Olympia swimming pool, the Vision building, things like that. We usually go into a space. What also helps guide us is[...]that we always theme the festival, so that helps us focus our thinking a wee bit. Every year we get really excited and program far too much, then we have to scale it back. It's goood to have some sort of theme. Usually they're pretty loose, we had character design as a theme one year, the year just past, 2013, it was the spaces in-between... they're usually open to interpretation, but it brings us back to how we're going to think about this, and also it helps us define who we might want to work with, who might be able to realise a project within the space that we've considered. Specifically with *100,000 Lux* we knew that technology was available, but it had never been used before. A lot of what Abertay does is interdisciplinary working, they promote and try to encourage that a lot. I deal with that a lot with the exhibitions here at the Hannah McClure centre as well, trying to use the medium of the arts to convey sometimes really complex research, scientific research specifically. So that's kind of what we did for *100,000 Lux*, we saw it as a vehicle for telling a more complex narrative, and I knew just from keeping my ear to the ground, really, about some of the research that was going on in the university at the time. What I found really interesting was some of the research into solar activity, so I started to look into who was working in that field, and pulled together a team just for initial discussions, basically keeping it really open and not signing anyone up for a particular role at the beginning, just having a chat about what's your research, what's the technology, how might that make sense together, and it kind of just evolved from there. 

KM: That's just like a personal network?

CB: It is, yeah. I think that is really, really crucial. That's one of the things I'm trying to get across to my fourth years just now, that are studying computer arts and stuff: being part of your local creative community is number one. It's true. Networking's a horrible word... I kind of enjoy it, it doesn't feel like a task, but just to be really open. I think that's one thing that Dundee's really good at as well, the creative community in Dundee is really open about what are you up to just now? As soon as you say I was thinking about doing something like this, they'll say oh, have you spoken to so-and-so? It's just that sort of human level of it. Being good at socialising, conversing, conveying quite articulately what it is that you're looking to do.  