design_enterprise_report:_telling_stories.md, before:

#Design Enterprise Report: Telling Stories

##Introduction
Working at the intersection of design and technology is not for the faint of heart. The tools and systems in use are constantly evolving. Entire categories of jobs exist which were unthinkable just a few years ago. Many of us entering the industry are doing so with combinations of skills that the job titles generally conferred on people do not adequately describe. In my own field of interaction design and creative technology, there is a spectrum of people, from those who work almost entirely in with early stage wireframes and user journeys at one end, to those coding large scale interactive experiences at the other — and that's without thinking about where those skills overlap in the middle. 

The problem for anyone trying to enter this area, then, is essentially one of branding. How can someone present themselves so that they effectively communicate the work that they do, when most people aren't familiar with either the breadth or depth of that work? How can they attract the kind of work they're interested in, when that work can span such a  wide range? 

This is not a new problem, nor is it one that is unique to the creative technology field. My objective is to investigate how other people have addressed the problems inherent in being trans-disciplinary, and how we can apply those lessons in the modern interaction design/creative technology field. The end product will be a plan for applying those lessons in my own post-university practice, and demonstrate some practical applications. 

##Middle bit (provisional title)



###Case study: Quartic LLama
[Quartic Llama](http://quarticllama.com/) are a Dundee-based games studio, founded in 2012 by graduates from the University of Abertay. In addition to their, for lack of a better term, "normal" games development work, they also collaborate extensively with cultural organisations, creating games and experiences. I first came across them when their piece [*100,000 Lux*](http://www.northeastofnorth.com/?event=100000-lux) was featured as part of Dundee's 2012 NEoN festival. A site specific performance using the coloured lighting on one of Abertay University's main buildings, combined with a striking soundtrack derived from solar observations, *100,000 Lux* marked Quartic Llama out as not your average game developer. Their collaboration with the National Theatre of Scotland, *Other*, is a location based augmented reality experience set in the streets of Dundee. At first glance it has little in common with either regular games or a piece like *100,000 Lux*, but after talking with Malath Abbas, an artist, designer and one of the founders of Quartic Llama, it's easier to pull together the threads running through their work.

Commit message:

talking about ql and narrative

design_enterprise_report:_telling_stories.md, after:

#Design Enterprise Report: Telling Stories

##Introduction
Working at the intersection of design and technology is not for the faint of heart. The tools and systems in use are constantly evolving. Entire categories of jobs exist which were unthinkable just a few years ago. Many of us entering the industry are doing so with combinations of skills that the job titles generally conferred on people do not adequately describe. In my own field of interaction design and creative technology, there is a spectrum of people, from those who work almost entirely in with early stage wireframes and user journeys at one end, to those coding large scale interactive experiences at the other — and that's without thinking about where those skills overlap in the middle. 

The problem for anyone trying to enter this area, then, is essentially one of branding. How can someone present themselves so that they effectively communicate the work that they do, when most people aren't familiar with either the breadth or depth of that work? How can they attract the kind of work they're interested in, when that work can span such a  wide range? 

This is not a new problem, nor is it one that is unique to the creative technology field. My objective is to investigate how other people have addressed the problems inherent in being trans-disciplinary, and how we can apply those lessons in the modern interaction design/creative technology field. The end product will be a plan for applying those lessons in my own post-university practice, and demonstrate some practical applications. I'll also examine some more general issues that arise, with  a particular focus on how they will apply to a business working with creative technology. 




##Middle bit (provisional title)



###Case study: Quartic Llama
[Quartic Llama](http://quarticllama.com/) are a Dundee-based games studio, founded in 2012 by graduates from the University of Abertay. In addition to their, for lack of a better term, "normal" games development work, they also collaborate extensively with cultural organisations, creating games and experiences. I first came across them when their piece [*100,000 Lux*](http://www.northeastofnorth.com/?event=100000-lux) was featured as part of Dundee's 2012 NEoN festival. A site specific performance using the coloured lighting on one of Abertay University's main buildings, combined with a striking soundtrack derived from solar observations, *100,000 Lux* marked Quartic Llama out as not your average game developer. Their collaboration with the National Theatre of Scotland, *Other*, is a location based augmented reality experience set in the streets of Dundee. At first glance it has little in common with either regular games or a piece like *100,000 Lux*, but after talking with Malath Abbas, an artist, designer and one of the founders of Quartic Llama, it's easier to pull together the threads running through their work. 

The identity that Quartic Llama present on their website is actually quite enigmatic. According to Malath, this is a deliberate ploy to draw people in. For him, crafting an image is all about telling a story.

>I think people connect with other people when there's a story, [because] that's how we communicate, mostly through narrative — that's how we pass information on. If you can communicate through narrative, that's awesome.

The Quartic Llama team are careful to tailor that narrative depending on who they're talking to. 

>Your image is so important. Unfortunately it takes a lot of time to get that right, and it's about being careful [about] the messages you send out there. What I do is, depending on who I'm speaking to, I'll do my research before hand. If it's a game publisher, I'll concentrate on our games. If it's an arts or cultural organisation, I'll talk about how we collaborate with people, how we're very artistic... It's about being very careful and doing that research.
